---
title: Deployer Incentive
description: Our incentive program for new project launching on Pennysia.
lang: en-US
layout: doc
footer: true
lastUpdated: true
outline: [2,3]
---

# Deployer Incentive Program

The Deployer Incentive Program empowers builders and project teams to launch new markets on Pennysia with **automatic revenue sharing** and long-term sustainability.

## Purpose
This incentive aligns Pennysia’s growth with the success of its ecosystem partners. It encourages:
- Developers to create and maintain active markets.
- Projects to bootstrap liquidity without external funding.
- Communities to launch their own DeFi ecosystems sustainably.

## How It Works
- Every market deployed on Pennysia is **instantly eligible for the revenue-sharing model.**
- Up to **50% of protocol fees** generated by that market are distributed directly to the deployer.
- As the pool grows and matures, and more users contribute liquidity, the deployer’s revenue share is gradually and proportionally decreased, with the reduced portion automatically redirected to the protocol fee pool.
- This ensures early deployers are rewarded for bootstrapping liquidity while maintaining fairness as the market decentralizes over time.

## Mechanism 

When a new liquidity pool is created — typically involving tokens that have never been launched before — the **project owner or protocol team** usually provides most or all of the initial liquidity.

In this case, the **full 50% revenue share** is granted to the deployer.

As more LPs join and total liquidity increases, the deployer’s share of fees adjusts proportionally to their share of the pool.

**Example:**

- If the deployer initially owns **100%** of the pool, they receive the full **50% of protocol fees**.
- If their ownership later decreases to **20%** of total liquidity, their share correspondingly drops to **20% of that 50%**, resulting in **10% of total protocol fees**.
- The remaining portion is automatically returned to the protocol treasury.

This mechanism ensures to benefit new projects while protecting the protocol from exploitations by bots and other frontrunners.


## Fee Switch

The Fee Switch is a built-in function for long-term sustainability. When activated, it temporarily pauses the Deployer Incentive Program, redirecting the deployer’s revenue share of fees back to the protocol treasury.

By default, the Fee Switch is turned off, ensuring deployers receive their full incentive. It may be activated in the future only if additional funding is needed to support Pennysia’s development, operations, or security.